---
title: ASSC 2023
date: 2023-10-18
location: Adelaide, SA
theme: "Closing the Loop: Incorporating Humans into Systems"
---

## Contents
- [Submit a Paper](#submit-a-paper)
- [Registration](#registration)
- [Venues](#venues)

## Submit a Paper
The Australian System Safety Conference (ASSC) is organised by the Australian Safety Critical Systems Association (aSCSa), a Special Interest Group of the Australian Computer Society.

The theme for the 2023 conference is “Closing the Loop: Incorporating Humans into Systems”. With systems growing increasingly complex, we are exploring the role of Humans in modern systems, particularly the contribution of Humans to System Safety and Cybersecurity. As systems are starting to incorporate more artificial intelligence, machine learning, autonomous agents, etc., we are exploring the changing role of the human element: when should humans be in-the-loop, on-the-loop, or out-of-the-loop?

Topics of interest include, but are not limited to, systems engineering, safety assurance, human factors, cybersecurity and social engineering, security assurance, reliance, automation, collaboration, teamwork, trust, and assurance standards.

The 2023 ASSC would like to examine and share the latest thinking on the state of the art and its fitness for purpose. We invite research papers and project experience to present and engage.

### ​Topics of Interest

The conference invites original and unpublished works that advance the state-of-the-art in safety and security considerations for the development and operation of safety and security critical systems. We are particularly interested in cross-industry and cross-pollenisation, and looking for papers in:
- Medicine and health (medical devices, e-health systems, etc.)
- Transport
- Defence and Aviation
- Telecommunications
- Energy
- Security
- Resource and process industries
- Emergency services

Delegates have the option of submitting two types of papers:
1. Refereed Papers by the conference program committee
2. Industry Presentations/Papers (not subject to peer review)

Both types of papers are published on the conference website, and if sufficient papers are submitted, published in the Journal of Safety and Reliability Society.

### Submission
- Abstracts should be approximately 250 words.
- For delegates who optionally submit a full paper - papers should be no more than 10 pages.
- Paper submissions can be emailed to [secretary@ascsa.org.au](mailto:secretary@ascsa.org.au)

### Important Dates
- Abstract: **30th June 2023** (text, rtf, MS-Word or pdf) 
- Submission: **25th Aug 2023** (rtf, MS-Word or pdf) 
- Camera-ready copy: **13th Oct 2023** (pdf only)

### Best Paper Award (New)
The purpose of this award is to encourage research in the science of software/system engineering or the application of that science for safety and/or mission critical software-intensive systems.

The award is an individual award consisting of $1000 (Australian), with a certificate, and up to $1000 for travel. For papers with multiple authors, the award will be given to the lead author.

## Registration
Conference registration fees (except as noted) includes attendance at all technical sessions on Wednesday and Thursday, special Thursday evening social event, and the conference proceedings.

All fees as listed above are in Australian Dollars and GST inclusive. For questions about registration, contact George Nikandros at [secretary@ascsa.org.au](mailto:secretary@ascsa.org.au).

|  | Registration |
|-------|--------|
| **Presenter's Rate** | FREE |
| **aSCSa, ACS Member** | $1250.00 |
| **All Others** | $1375.00 |

## Venues

### Conference Venue
This years conference will be held at the **Crowne Plaza** at 27 Frome St, Adelaide SA.

### Social Event
Conference dinner is planned for Wednesday evening, 6pm.
